README.md, before:

# About

<div align="center">
  This repo is a cozy home for scripts and configurations (aka .dotfiles) on my Linux setup. All tools are open-source and freely available, allowing you to use, modify, and share them as you like.
</div>

# Showcase

<div align="center">
  <img alt="Showcase 0" src="./assets/showcase_0.png" />
</div>

<details>
  <summary>More screenshots</summary>
  <div align="center">
    <img alt="Showcase 1" src="./assets/showcase_1.png" />
    <img alt="Showcase 2" src="./assets/showcase_2.png" />
    <img alt="Showcase 3" src="./assets/showcase_3.png" />
    <img alt="Showcase 4" src="./assets/showcase_4.png" />
    <img alt="Showcase 5" src="./assets/showcase_5.png" />
  </div>
</details>

# Featured Software

|                   |                                                                                                                              |                                               |                                |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| WM                | [Hyprland](https://github.com/hyprwm/Hyprland)                                                                               | [Niri](https://github.com/YaLTeR/niri)        | [i3](https://github.com/i3/i3) |
| Bar               | [Waybar](https://github.com/Alexays/Waybar)                                                                                  |                                               |                                |
| File Manager      | [Yazi](https://github.com/sxyazi/yazi)                                                                                       | [Thunar](https://gitlab.xfce.org/xfce/thunar) |                                |
| Music Player      | [RMPC](https://github.com/mierak/rmpc) + [MPD](https://github.com/MusicPlayerDaemon/MPD)                                     |                                               |                                |
| Editor            | [Neovim](https://github.com/neovim/neovim)                                                                                   |                                               |                                |
| Terminal          | [Ghostty](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty)                                                                            |                                               |                                |
| Shell             | Zsh + <br> [Zinit Plugin Manager](https://github.com/zdharma-continuum/zinit) + <br> [Starship Prompt](https://starship.rs/) |                                               |                                |
| Lockscreen        | hyprlock                                                                                                                     | swaylock-fancy                                |                                |
| Wallpaper Manager | [SWWW](https://github.com/LGFae/swww)                                                                                        | [Feh](https://github.com/derf/feh)            |                                |
| Wallpapers        | [Link](https://github.com/somanoir/.noir-dotfiles/tree/master/.local/share/backgrounds)                                      |                                               |                                |
| Font              | [Maple Mono](https://github.com/subframe7536/maple-font)                                                                     |                                               |                                |
| GTK Theme         | [Catppuccin-Macchiato](https://github.com/catppuccin/gtk)                                                                    |                                               |                                |
| Qt Theme          | [Catppuccin-Macchiato](https://github.com/catppuccin/qt5ct)                                                                  |                                               |                                |
| Cursor            | [Catppuccin-Macchiato](https://github.com/catppuccin/cursors)                                                                |                                               |                                |
| Icon Theme        | [Tela-circle](https://github.com/vinceliuice/Tela-circle-icon-theme)                                                         |                                               |                                |

# Installation

## Automated

I've made automated scripts to install all necessary packages and pull the
dotfiles on your machine. Make sure to read the instructions in their
corresponding repositories.

- [Fedora](https://github.com/somanoir/noir-fedorainstall)
- Arch Linux (🚧 under construction 🚧)

## Manual

Alternatively, you may follow the following instructions to set everything up
manually.

<details>
  <summary>
    <span style="font-size: 1.2em; font-weight: bold;">Arch Linux<span>
  </summary>

##### Install common utilities (X11 and Wayland)

```
paru -Sy --needed brightnessctl playerctl pavucontrol alsa-utils waybar ghostty wofi mako wl-clipboard copyq xclip neovim swww swaylock-fancy-git mpd mpc rmpc yazi thunar thunar-archive-plugin thunar-media-tags-plugin thunar-shares-plugin thunar-vcs-plugin thunar-volman tumbler dunst maim imagemagick xdotool rofi polybar feh zsh fzf uv zoxide lsd btop
```

##### Install Niri

```
paru -Sy --needed niri xwayland-satellite xdg-desktop-portal-gnome
```

##### Install Hyprland

```
paru -Sy --needed hyprland hyprpicker pyprland hyprpolkitagent hyprshot xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland hyprlock
```

##### Install i3

```
paru -Sy --needed i3-wm i3lock autotiling
```

##### Install themes and customization tools

```
paru -Sy --needed catppuccin-gtk-theme-macchiato catppuccin-cursors-macchiato tela-circle-icon-theme-dracula stow nwg-look
```

##### Install recommended fonts

```
paru -Sy --needed maplemono-ttf maplemono-nf-unhinted maplemono-nf-cn-unhinted gnu-free-fonts noto-fonts ttf-bitstream-vera ttf-croscore ttf-dejavu ttf-droid ttf-ibm-plex ttf-liberation wqy-zenhei ttf-mona-sans apple-fonts ttf-ms-fonts nerd-fonts
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    <span style="font-size: 1.2em; font-weight: bold;">Fedora<span>
  </summary>

##### Enable COPR repos

```
sudo dnf copr enable lihaohong/yazi
sudo dnf copr enable yalter/niri
sudo dnf copr enable solopasha/hyprland
sudo dnf install --nogpgcheck --repofrompath 'terra,https://repos.fyralabs.com/terra$releasever' terra-release
```

##### Install common utilities (X11 and Wayland)

```
sudo dnf install zsh fzf uv zoxide lsd bat brightnessctl playerctl pavucontrol alsa-utils waybar ghostty wofi mako copyq xclip neovim vim vim-enhanced swww mpd mpc Thunar yazi dunst maim xdotool rofi polybar feh ImageMagick meson btop mpv network-manager-applet fastfetch  wlogout python3-pip python3-gobject gtk4 codium codium-marketplace xinput
```

##### Install Niri

```
sudo dnf install niri xwayland-satellite xdg-desktop-portal-gnome
```

##### Install Hyprland

```
sudo dnf install hyprland hyprpicker pyprland hyprpolkitagent hyprshot xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland hyprlock qt5-qtwayland qt6-qtwayland cmake meson cpio pkgconf-pkg-config
```

##### Install AwesomeWM

```
sudo dnf install gnome-session-xsession xorg-x11-xinit-session awesome
```

##### These will need to be built from source if you want to use them (follow corresponding instructions)

[RMPC (music player)](https://mierak.github.io/rmpc/next/installation/#installation-methods)

##### Install themes and customization tools

```
sudo dnf install nwg-look stow
```

##### Install recommended fonts

```
sudo dnf install maple-fonts nerd-fonts mozilla-fira-sans-fonts fontawesome-6-free-fonts
```

</details>

##### Personally, I use [stow](https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/) for managing my .dotfiles

```
cd ~
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/somanoir/.noir-dotfiles.git
cd .noir-dotfiles
stow .

# Possibly an overkill on setting up cursor theme
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface cursor-theme 'catppuccin-macchiato-lavender-cursors'
# For bat to use specified theme
bat cache --build
```

##### Gtk-4 customization

```
sudo flatpak override --filesystem=xdg-data/themes
```

##### Set wallpaper

On Wayland: with the following command (it will later be handled automatically
on every boot as long as swww-daemon is running)

```
swww img path/to/your/wallpaper.png
```

On X11: with the following command (put it into autostart of your WM; check
names of your monitors with `xrandr` and replace HDMI-0 with them)

```
feh --bg-fill path/to/your/wallpaper.png --output HDMI-0 -z
```

##### Music Player Setup (RMPC + MPD)

```
mkdir ~/.local/share/mpd
touch ~/.local/share/mpd/database
mkdir ~/.local/share/mpd/playlists
touch ~/.local/share/mpd/state
touch ~/.local/share/mpd/sticker.sql

systemctl --user enable --now mpd.service
mpc update # To manually update music library
```

##### (Optional) Themes can be customized through nwg-look (GTK-3), Gradience (GTK-4) and kvantum, qt5ct, qt6ct (Qt)

# Known Issues

> - Qt themes seem to behave unpredictably outside KDE Plasma (inconsistent
>   background color, broken buttons and menus, etc). Might be worth leaving
>   them with default styles.
> - On Niri, Discord screen sharing doesn't seem to work.
> - On Fedora, packaged cava doesn't respect orientation = horizontal property.
>   Building cava from source fixes the issue.
>   (https://github.com/karlstav/cava?tab=readme-ov-file#from-source)

# Feedback

- If you have any questions or suggestions regarding the project, feel free to
  join [Discussions](https://github.com/somanoir/.noir-dotfiles/discussions).
- Found a bug? Open an
  [Issue](https://github.com/somanoir/.noir-dotfiles/issues).

# Special thanks

I would like to express special thanks to the following people for their
tremendous work as well as direct and indirect contributions to this project:

- [mierak](https://github.com/mierak) for making a great TUI music player
  [rmpc](https://github.com/mierak/rmpc) and a multitude of helpful suggestions
  in setting up my config files for the player.
- [Eisa01](https://github.com/Eisa01) for their
  [mpv-scripts](https://github.com/Eisa01/mpv-scripts) that add vast
  functionality to the mpv player.

Commit message:

Readme: update known issues with fedora steam launch

README.md, after:

# About

<div align="center">
  This repo is a cozy home for scripts and configurations (aka .dotfiles) on my Linux setup. All tools are open-source and freely available, allowing you to use, modify, and share them as you like.
</div>

# Showcase

<div align="center">
  <img alt="Showcase 0" src="./assets/showcase_0.png" />
</div>

<details>
  <summary>More screenshots</summary>
  <div align="center">
    <img alt="Showcase 1" src="./assets/showcase_1.png" />
    <img alt="Showcase 2" src="./assets/showcase_2.png" />
    <img alt="Showcase 3" src="./assets/showcase_3.png" />
    <img alt="Showcase 4" src="./assets/showcase_4.png" />
    <img alt="Showcase 5" src="./assets/showcase_5.png" />
  </div>
</details>

# Featured Software

|                   |                                                                                                                              |                                               |                                |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| WM                | [Hyprland](https://github.com/hyprwm/Hyprland)                                                                               | [Niri](https://github.com/YaLTeR/niri)        | [i3](https://github.com/i3/i3) |
| Bar               | [Waybar](https://github.com/Alexays/Waybar)                                                                                  |                                               |                                |
| File Manager      | [Yazi](https://github.com/sxyazi/yazi)                                                                                       | [Thunar](https://gitlab.xfce.org/xfce/thunar) |                                |
| Music Player      | [RMPC](https://github.com/mierak/rmpc) + [MPD](https://github.com/MusicPlayerDaemon/MPD)                                     |                                               |                                |
| Editor            | [Neovim](https://github.com/neovim/neovim)                                                                                   |                                               |                                |
| Terminal          | [Ghostty](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty)                                                                            |                                               |                                |
| Shell             | Zsh + <br> [Zinit Plugin Manager](https://github.com/zdharma-continuum/zinit) + <br> [Starship Prompt](https://starship.rs/) |                                               |                                |
| Lockscreen        | hyprlock                                                                                                                     | swaylock-fancy                                |                                |
| Wallpaper Manager | [SWWW](https://github.com/LGFae/swww)                                                                                        | [Feh](https://github.com/derf/feh)            |                                |
| Wallpapers        | [Link](https://github.com/somanoir/.noir-dotfiles/tree/master/.local/share/backgrounds)                                      |                                               |                                |
| Font              | [Maple Mono](https://github.com/subframe7536/maple-font)                                                                     |                                               |                                |
| GTK Theme         | [Catppuccin-Macchiato](https://github.com/catppuccin/gtk)                                                                    |                                               |                                |
| Qt Theme          | [Catppuccin-Macchiato](https://github.com/catppuccin/qt5ct)                                                                  |                                               |                                |
| Cursor            | [Catppuccin-Macchiato](https://github.com/catppuccin/cursors)                                                                |                                               |                                |
| Icon Theme        | [Tela-circle](https://github.com/vinceliuice/Tela-circle-icon-theme)                                                         |                                               |                                |

# Installation

## Automated

I've made automated scripts to install all necessary packages and pull the
dotfiles on your machine. Make sure to read the instructions in their
corresponding repositories.

- [Fedora](https://github.com/somanoir/noir-fedorainstall)
- Arch Linux (🚧 under construction 🚧)

## Manual

Alternatively, you may follow the following instructions to set everything up
manually.

<details>
  <summary>
    <span style="font-size: 1.2em; font-weight: bold;">Arch Linux<span>
  </summary>

##### Install common utilities (X11 and Wayland)

```
paru -Sy --needed brightnessctl playerctl pavucontrol alsa-utils waybar ghostty wofi mako wl-clipboard copyq xclip neovim swww swaylock-fancy-git mpd mpc rmpc yazi thunar thunar-archive-plugin thunar-media-tags-plugin thunar-shares-plugin thunar-vcs-plugin thunar-volman tumbler dunst maim imagemagick xdotool rofi polybar feh zsh fzf uv zoxide lsd btop
```

##### Install Niri

```
paru -Sy --needed niri xwayland-satellite xdg-desktop-portal-gnome
```

##### Install Hyprland

```
paru -Sy --needed hyprland hyprpicker pyprland hyprpolkitagent hyprshot xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland hyprlock
```

##### Install i3

```
paru -Sy --needed i3-wm i3lock autotiling
```

##### Install themes and customization tools

```
paru -Sy --needed catppuccin-gtk-theme-macchiato catppuccin-cursors-macchiato tela-circle-icon-theme-dracula stow nwg-look
```

##### Install recommended fonts

```
paru -Sy --needed maplemono-ttf maplemono-nf-unhinted maplemono-nf-cn-unhinted gnu-free-fonts noto-fonts ttf-bitstream-vera ttf-croscore ttf-dejavu ttf-droid ttf-ibm-plex ttf-liberation wqy-zenhei ttf-mona-sans apple-fonts ttf-ms-fonts nerd-fonts
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    <span style="font-size: 1.2em; font-weight: bold;">Fedora<span>
  </summary>

##### Enable COPR repos

```
sudo dnf copr enable lihaohong/yazi
sudo dnf copr enable yalter/niri
sudo dnf copr enable solopasha/hyprland
sudo dnf install --nogpgcheck --repofrompath 'terra,https://repos.fyralabs.com/terra$releasever' terra-release
```

##### Install common utilities (X11 and Wayland)

```
sudo dnf install zsh fzf uv zoxide lsd bat brightnessctl playerctl pavucontrol alsa-utils waybar ghostty wofi mako copyq xclip neovim vim vim-enhanced swww mpd mpc Thunar yazi dunst maim xdotool rofi polybar feh ImageMagick meson btop mpv network-manager-applet fastfetch  wlogout python3-pip python3-gobject gtk4 codium codium-marketplace xinput
```

##### Install Niri

```
sudo dnf install niri xwayland-satellite xdg-desktop-portal-gnome
```

##### Install Hyprland

```
sudo dnf install hyprland hyprpicker pyprland hyprpolkitagent hyprshot xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland hyprlock qt5-qtwayland qt6-qtwayland cmake meson cpio pkgconf-pkg-config
```

##### Install AwesomeWM

```
sudo dnf install gnome-session-xsession xorg-x11-xinit-session awesome
```

##### These will need to be built from source if you want to use them (follow corresponding instructions)

[RMPC (music player)](https://mierak.github.io/rmpc/next/installation/#installation-methods)

##### Install themes and customization tools

```
sudo dnf install nwg-look stow
```

##### Install recommended fonts

```
sudo dnf install maple-fonts nerd-fonts mozilla-fira-sans-fonts fontawesome-6-free-fonts
```

</details>

##### Personally, I use [stow](https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/) for managing my .dotfiles

```
cd ~
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/somanoir/.noir-dotfiles.git
cd .noir-dotfiles
stow .

# Possibly an overkill on setting up cursor theme
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface cursor-theme 'catppuccin-macchiato-lavender-cursors'
# For bat to use specified theme
bat cache --build
```

##### Gtk-4 customization

```
sudo flatpak override --filesystem=xdg-data/themes
```

##### Set wallpaper

On Wayland: with the following command (it will later be handled automatically
on every boot as long as swww-daemon is running)

```
swww img path/to/your/wallpaper.png
```

On X11: with the following command (put it into autostart of your WM; check
names of your monitors with `xrandr` and replace HDMI-0 with them)

```
feh --bg-fill path/to/your/wallpaper.png --output HDMI-0 -z
```

##### Music Player Setup (RMPC + MPD)

```
mkdir ~/.local/share/mpd
touch ~/.local/share/mpd/database
mkdir ~/.local/share/mpd/playlists
touch ~/.local/share/mpd/state
touch ~/.local/share/mpd/sticker.sql

systemctl --user enable --now mpd.service
mpc update # To manually update music library
```

##### (Optional) Themes can be customized through nwg-look (GTK-3), Gradience (GTK-4) and kvantum, qt5ct, qt6ct (Qt)

# Known Issues

> Qt themes seem to behave unpredictably outside KDE Plasma (inconsistent
> background color, broken buttons and menus, etc). Might be worth leaving them
> with default styles.

> On Niri, Discord screen sharing doesn't seem to work.

> On Fedora, packaged cava doesn't respect orientation = horizontal property.
> Building cava from source fixes the issue.
> (https://github.com/karlstav/cava?tab=readme-ov-file#from-source)

> On Fedora, initial launch of Steam requires the following env variable (launch
> from terminal): __GL_CONSTANT_FRAME_RATE_HINT=3 steam

# Feedback

- If you have any questions or suggestions regarding the project, feel free to
  join [Discussions](https://github.com/somanoir/.noir-dotfiles/discussions).
- Found a bug? Open an
  [Issue](https://github.com/somanoir/.noir-dotfiles/issues).

# Special thanks

I would like to express special thanks to the following people for their
tremendous work as well as direct and indirect contributions to this project:

- [mierak](https://github.com/mierak) for making a great TUI music player
  [rmpc](https://github.com/mierak/rmpc) and a multitude of helpful suggestions
  in setting up my config files for the player.
- [Eisa01](https://github.com/Eisa01) for their
  [mpv-scripts](https://github.com/Eisa01/mpv-scripts) that add vast
  functionality to the mpv player.
